Hi, my name is Prakash Neehkantan.
I'm part of Broadridge, a $4 billion firm,
which is part of the S&P 500.
We enable corporate governance and
transactions in the capital
markets in Broadridge.
I am part of the copper strategy group,
helping drive innovation and
adoption of blockchain
among our customers.
Broadridge has a vantage
point in this space,
because we sit in the middle of investors,
advisors to brokerage firms and
operations,
enabling products and
services across all these parties.
Broadridge processes more than $5 trillion
worth of transactions in fixed income and
equity markets.
We also enable communication for
5,000 brands to more than 75%
of North American households.
We also manage shareholder
voting in 90 countries.
Broadridge is a fintech firm, actually.
And fintech is,
I think it's many things for many people.
But if you look at it,
automation is at the heart of
every financial services firm.
So it is very difficult to say
that no financial services
firm is not fintech, right?
But what differentiates them is actually,
financial services firm existing, there
is existing financial services firms sit
in the middle of lot of transaction data,
which they've been servicing their
customers for many, many years.
And they leverage technology to
deliver many of their services.
What we have seen in the last 20 years is
the growth of the web, the mobile, and
aggregation of humongous amounts of data
across the globe, by a variety of firms.
What fintechs are trying to do different
from traditional financial services firm,
are leveraging this connectivity,
and the data, and
innovate on new business models to
service this traditional customer base.
Broadridge's strategy is very simple.
We are in the middle of this transaction
flow among all our customers,
servicing this larger market of investors.
Our goal is to make this market
more transparent, efficient,
and cost-effective,
driving new services to our customers.
We do that by adopting
a next-generation set of
technologies, which we
call ABCD in short form.
That is AI, blockchain, cloud,
and digital in a broad sense.
It's interesting too that we put it in
the ABCD, but the reality is, actually,
what we want to do is very simple.
We want to drive all
communication to customers
in a digital native form,
through a variety of channels.
And servicing them anywhere through
the cloud through a cloud
hosted mechanism.
And share data through
blockchain in a sense, and
solve innovative problems through AI.
I would say that exists in our strategy.
We believe in partnering,
as well as working with our customers, and
building these new solutions.
We have invested also in startups,
and other fintechs, and
collaboratively work towards
new solutions in this area.
So when our customers ask us about
fintech, or any of these new technologies,
our first goal is to identify
what business challenges and
problems they're trying to solve for,
right?
For our customers, cost could be a driver.
They want to deliver
more efficient solutions.
They might want to grow into new markets,
new customer segments.
They would also like to
actually provide innovative new
solutions to any of these customers.
What we say is actually before
choosing the technology,
let's analyze the problem
space at the business area.
Figure out whether this is the appropriate
technology to use and solve for.
And then we work with
them collaboratively,
as well as actually technology providers
to innovate and design new solutions.
That's been our strategy
always with customers.
The goal is to actually understand
the problem, and then solve for
it using technology.
Technology does not come first,
whether it's blockchain or AI.
For many people, blockchain is
something is a technology looking for
a problem, and that is true for
many of our customers.
To everybody that's been experimenting
with this technology, our advice has been
to actually focus on specific business
areas from a broader perspective.
We want to solve for
what is called network effect.
That idea is actually that the solution
becomes more effective as more and
more customers, and
their business partners join the network.
And we being in the middle of the data and
the transaction flow can actually
help them effectively manage this.
Blockchain is such a technology which
can actually enable, secure efficient
sharing with confidentiality of data and
transaction between multiple parties.
And our goal has been to pick
specific business areas,
which can be solved using
blockchain technology.
So when we apply blockchain technology,
right, we chose, say,
a multi-pronged strategy.
We decided to partner with
startups in the space.
We have investments in a firm,
like digital asset.
We are also members of actually technology
consortiums like Enterprise Ethereum, and
Hyper Ledger.
We invested in these technologies,
built pilots and proof of concepts,
and then collaborate a jointly with
customers like Santander Bank,
and Northern Trust, JP Morgan,
to build out solutions with specific
use cases in mind, like proxy voting.
Which brings in efficiency and trust
into the corporate governance process.
Fintech is, as I said,
many things for many people.
Established players, like us, actually,
are using a fintech very efficiently and
innovatively.
One of the areas we are applying this,
actually,
there is still a lot of
paper in our businesses.
And what we are doing is actually
extracting text from copies of
the digital copies of
these paper documents,
converting them into specific attributes,
which we can use.
Say for instance,
in a process like trade allocation,
where the allocation instructions come
as faxes, or actually emails, right?
Or even actually paper documents, which
are scanned and actually processed later.
Extracting text from images is actually
optical character recognition,
which is a form of computer vision.
And that is getting better and
better, applying machine learning.
And extracting actually information
from text is actually natural
language processing,
which is also part of the AI.
Data actually is available
in plenty today.
And so
what could not be applied earlier becomes
a new potential innovative
area to apply technology.
The classic example,
for instance, markets.
As you all know,
being in the financial services space,
which brings buyers and sellers together.
Traditionally, liquid markets,
like say for instance,
NASDAQ or NYC, where the top
500 stocks are actively traded.
You can always find a seller at a price
which is actually available to you if you
are a buyer.
But in some markets like corporate bonds,
and especially in the long tail of
these corporate bond market,
it's very difficult and
expensive to find a buyer or
a seller, or bring them together.
What we are doing is actually
trying to apply machine learning,
based on the history of
transactions of participants,
to identify whether there are similar
products that they have bought before.
Which will actually make them buy, or
actually show interest in
buying this new bond, right?
And that's an innovative way to think of
it, actually like how Amazon works for
you with recommendation engines.
You bought these products in the past, so
you might be a potential buyer for
the similar product today, right?
But we are applying a similar technology,
actually, in the bond market.
If you look at exciting fintechs,
there are a range of fintechs.
I mentioned that they apply innovative
business models, solve problems.
They can solve mundane problems.
One company which has been a fintech for
quite some time,
a lot of people might be
familiar with this name.
It's Stripe, Stripe makes the traditional
legacy payment infrastructure of banks,
and the banking network
simple to use through APIs.
We think that that's a very
innovative use of technology
to take a backend back office problem,
and simplifying the whole process for
all these companies coming online and
enabling payments.
Another example is actually Acorns,
which is actually start-up in the fintech
space, which is solving savings.
They do what I would
call nudge based savings.
They help you save by taking small
chunks out of your regular transactions,
and influencing your behavior.
So that actually,
you build up your savings account over
a period of time incrementally, right?
That's a very innovative model which
combines behavioral science actually, and
economics, right?
Solving the problem, which is a very
challenging problem in today's world,
because with the savings rate
in the US is actually very low.
In my belief,
singularity is still far away, right?
Fintech, as we call it today,
the ideal future would be that
nobody calls it fintech anymore, and
becomes part of everyday life, and
that's been true of lots of technology.
Today we don't talk about e-commerce,
right?
But everybody uses e-commerce,
and the same thing for
streaming media and Netflix, right?
We have cut the cord, and it's become
a natural progression of things.
We believe,
I think, the fintech world, it'll also
evolve in a very similar fashion.
Technology changes actually too fast for
us, actually,
to label it in different fashions.
If you go back a few years,
nobody would have started using
the term Chief Data Officer.
But today,
many companies have Chief Data Officer.
Well the last five years, many
corporations also have digital officers
who enable, actually, digital embedding,
digital processes across every business.
In a similar fashion, fintechs or
financial services firms would have
actually officers driving
customer behavior, and
varieties of forms applying technology.
You might want to call
them a fintech officer.
You might want to call them actually
somebody driving innovation and
technology.
You might want to call them
somebody driving AI and blockchain.
None of that matters, because the end
result is actually that you're adapting to
actually technology, and
servicing your customers.
Small businesses actually
are the ones which
can actually get maximum impact or
a fintech.
We always talk about the unbanked, but
actually, we should talk about also
the banked, which is actually
lots of small mom-and-pop stores.
Which actually service their
customers either through credit
card payments, right, and not cash.
And also have a challenge of getting
financing to stock the appropriate
inventory for them to service
their customers efficiently.
What can happen in
the future is two things,
because they are willing to share
their transaction history, banks can
actually apply machine learning on that
data, and actually build new models.
Which can ensure that, actually,
without traditional history,
they are still a good bet to finance.
Right, that's one dimension.
Take the case of a student.
There are many forms in
which this can apply, right?
The simplest form actually, fintech can
apply student to student loans, right?
The model is changing, there are new
models being created for financing.
We have seen some startups,
actually, like SoFi,
which are actually focused
only on student loans.
What you want is actually to enable
a larger set of students to get
loans at a lower rate if needed, and
a potential for them to pay off.
Actually, they are loans over a period
of time, or even reduce those loans.
So one area, right, so when we talked
about financing, right, blockchain for
instance, right?
Right, let's take a large manufacturer.
We just got actually a large supplier,
right?
For example, this is just an example.
It could be a large car company, right?
Which has got an automotive
parts supplier.
One supplier here, main supplier,
say, in China, and
that Chinese supplier has got actually
50 other vendors who supply to them.
What happens in the traditional
financing space is actually the large
supplier to this car company
can go to a bank and
get financing as they supply
actually parts to this car company.
But the second and third firms which
actually supply the final parts
to this primary supplier are always
in the middle of a process,
where they do not have visibility
to the final transaction of
what part has actually gone into
the manufacturing of the car.
And when will they get paid?
And this is where something like
blockchain is actually transforming
the supply chain, where every party to
this transaction can actually track
every part that the supply
across the supply chain.
And make it visible as they raise invoices
to their banks, and the banks would,
actually, now with confidence know that
this part went into this larger component,
which then got supplied
to say General Motors.
And so they know where in
the pipeline this part is, and
they can confidently lend
to the small supplier.
This way, I think small businesses across
the globe can get transformed, and
we are just seeing the start
of this process today.
There is no hard and
fast rule about career today.
You could in any,
if you're looking at the fintech space,
you could start on the technology
side of the business, or
you could start in the business side and
the product side of the business.
Now, if you are by training
a technologist, it might be good to
educate yourself in a particular domain
in the financial services space.
And because that's going to be more
valuable, a technologist with business
knowledge is more valuable than
just actually say a developer or
programmer, right?
The same goes for the other side, because
if you're a product manager today in
a fintech firm, in your startup,
actually, it's a small team.
You need to actually roll up your
sleeves and do lots of activities.
You will not be a good product manager
with lots of good domain knowledge
unless you also know how that product
can be realized in technology.
So you need to know the limits of the
technologies, how it can be applied, and
also help manage technologists and
developers, actually, to build this.
That, I think, is a key skill.
And so for business and
financial professionals actually getting
a better sense of actually technology,
and understanding technology is, I think,
a good supplement to what they
are already learnt, right?
The combination for both would be data,
because if you are building something new
today, the process of building something
new is completely become analytic, right?
You actually start with
the concept validated the market,
analyze, get people to use it.
Look at the data, analyze it further,
decide whether it's working or not,
pivot to a new model.
And this continuous process needs
actually data and analytic skills, so
I would always supplement
something on data and analytics,
along with your traditional degree.